---
playid: 1
gear: low
title: Migrate Apps off "Stacked" Infrastructure
---

The Tri-Modal Approach to Cloud Services described the migration of low gear applications to the cloud as uploading virtual machines images
from a source VMWare ESXi environments to an destination FCS cloud domain. This "drag-and-drop" is clearly attractive, but an implicit requirement
in this approach is that the virtual machine images migrating to the cloud effectively serve as a deployment unit of a particular application.

In FAA hosting environments, the requirement is largely unmet, as individual applications run on top of common middleware platforms
(such as .NET application servers or Oracle RAC clusters) that host components of multiple applications on top a single virtual machine.
More likely than not, these applications have different funtional requirements, security controls, and system owners, leading to different outcomes during a
Cloud Suitability Assessment. While it made rational sense to minimize the number of platforms when conducting manual systems administration in a
traditional FAA data center, this model does not work well in cloud environments.

As a result, applications moving to the cloud must be migrated to virtual
machines that provide middleware services for only one application. This prevents infrastructure components from crossing system
boundaries and enables migration of existing VM images to the cloud. While highly discouraged, it may be permissible to migrate common
infrastructure to the cloud if all systems that reside on that shared infrastructure are cloud suitable without code or
configuration changes. However, this should be considered a temporary measure and only done alongside a near-term commitment to
refactor the various applications onto logically isolated deployment units in the cloud.

### Key Questions
- Is your application virtualized?
- Is your application running on shared virtual machines that also host components of several applications?
- Is there a well defined deployment unit running on the shared hosting environment? (e.g. Java EAR or WAR file, .NET CLR assemblies)
- Does the middleware licensing agreement permit migration to cloud?
- Does the middleware licensing agreement permit refactoring in FAA data centers?

### Checklist
1. Complete a detailed Cloud Suitability Assessment to determine if your application is a candidate for migration
2. Work with Operations to understand how the application is currently hosted
3. Work with Legal to understand if your middleware licenses can be migrated to the cloud
4. Refactor applications within FAA data centers to prevent accidental data leakage of neighbor applications.