---
playid: 2
gear: low
title: Configure Apps to scale vertically by resizing VMs
---

Despite the fact that NIST standards equate equate elasticity to the horizontal scaling of nodes, it is also possible to vertically scale virtual machines
by shutting down a virtual machine instance, resizing the virtual machine instance using a larger virtual machine size, and restarting the virtual machine.
Modern operating systems and properly-configured middleware detect these larger resources and begin using them without additional manual intervention.

This practice is familiar to VMWare administrators and likely occurs with FAA applications today, but unlike the FAA's VMWare environment, cloud providers do
not support concepts such as "Memory Hot Add" or "CPU Hot Plug" which allows hypervisor to dynamically increase virtual machine resources without having to
reboot. A desire for these sorts of services likely influences the inclusion of VM\_VPUA\_ADD and network I/O bandwidth supplemental features in the FCS
contract, but the actual implmementation of these services would require a reboot.

While this is disruptive and likely requires downtime, this approach allows existing applications that do not have an architecture suitable to horizontal scaling a quick
and easy path to increased capacity. To the greatest degree possible by the FCS contract and the Agility Platform, low gear applications should use this capability
to resize applications in anticipation of known spikes in demand or in response to degraded user experience.

### Key Questions
- Does your application currently take advantage of "Memory Hot Add" or "CPU Hot Plug" features in the ESXi environment?
- Does your application rely on static configuration files that must be modified before being able to use additional resources?
- Does your application have a usage characterstic and provides off-peak hours condusive to rebooting?