---
playid: 3
gear: low
title: Backup automatically via Snapshots
---

Less-critical applications should consider implementing a "backup and restore" model of disaster recovery by periodically backing up the disk volumes associated with an application's VMs as snapshots in object-storage.
This approach potentially offers basic disaster recovery services for applications with a lower [recovery point objective (RPO).](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Recovery_point_objective)

In the FCS environments, the creation of snapshots can be automated by creating an Agility Platform Event Policy with a periodic event time based on the target RPO. Recovery of low gear applications occurs by reverting
volumes to an existing snapshot, but applications shifting to medium gear may consider alternative recovery processes that utilitize orchestration scripts to redeploy a recovery environment from scratch in order to
maintain the existing environment for problem determination or to gracefully cut over to a fresh environment when the existing infrastructutre is facing a "sick but not dead" scenario.

Note: AWS has backend restrictions that limit an
account to five simultaneous snapshot actions at a single time.

### Key Questions
- Is the application's RPO able to support the "backup and restore" model of disaster recovery?
- Does the total storage cost of snapshots (# of snapshots per day needed to achieve RPO X Average Size of Incremental Updates per Snapshot X Data Retention Requirements) make snapshots uneconomical when compared to
continuous replication to a hot backup using continuous replication? If so, can the data retention policy be satisfied by shifting older snapshots to lower-cost archival object storage?
- Does the number of disk volumes exceed the cloud service provider's restricutions on the number of simultaneous snapshot actions allowed in parallel? If so, does the lack of synchronization of disk snapshots make
this approach unworkable?

### Checklist
1. Review existing recovery objectives prior to migrating to the cloud.
2. Once in the cloud, configure an Agility Platform Event Policy with a periodic event time based on the target RPO that creates snapshots of all disk volumes.
3. Adjust the Event Policy and policy for associated object storage buckets to ensure that proper security measures are in place for this data in flight and at rest, including access controls and encryption.
4. If permissable, adjust the Agility Platform Event Policy to shift older snapshots to lower-cost archival object storage.
5. Periodically test recovery actions for this application and adjust policy and procedures based on lessons learned.
6. If the application eventually creates orchestration scripts capable of deployment, use these orchestration scripts during restore activities.