---
playid: 4
gear: low
title: Replicate app to physically seperated backup
---

When disaster recovery requirements exceed those provided by basic
backup and recovery of snapshots, the components of a Low Gear
application shall be replicated from a hot primary environment to a
cold standby environment with mirrored VMs located in a separate
availability zone, region, or data center. If possible, the
management platform (Agility Platform or vCenter) shall be
configured with automation that performs health checks and powers up
and cuts over to the back-up environment when a failure is detected.
Alternatively, the management platform shall notify a human operator
for manual failover. This solution can be made highly available by
having a warm standby running at all times.

### Checklist
1. Ship a functioning “minimum viable product” (MVP) that solves a core user need as soon as possible, no longer than three months from the beginning of the project, using a “beta” or “test” period if needed
2. Run usability tests frequently to see how well the service works and identify improvements that should be made
3. Ensure the individuals building the service communicate closely using techniques such as launch meetings, war rooms, daily standups, and team chat tools
4. Keep delivery teams small and focused; limit organizational layers that separate these teams from the business owners
5. Release features and improvements multiple times each month
6. Create a prioritized list of features and bugs, also known as the “feature backlog” and “bug backlog”
7. Use a source code version control system
8. Give the entire project team access to the issue tracker and version control system
9. Use code reviews to ensure quality


### Key Questions
- How long did it take to ship the MVP? If it hasn't shipped yet, when will it?
- How long does it take for a production deployment?
- How many days or weeks are in each iteration/sprint?
- Which version control system is being used?
- How are bugs tracked and tickets issued? What tool is used?
- How is the feature backlog managed? What tool is used?
- How often do you review and reprioritize the feature and bug backlog?
- How do you collect user feedback during development? How is that feedback used to improve the service?
- At each stage of usability testing, which gaps were identified in addressing user needs?
