---
playid: 7
gear: medium
title: Automate deployment of Operating Systems using Stem Cell Images
---

Avoid golden images and implement virtual machines on base [Stem Cell Images](http://madstop.com/post/85950592485/golden-image-or-foil-ball-repost),
which eschew specialization, middleware, or server roles and only provide the absolute minimal subset of operating system components
and management agents (either FAA or external partners such as CSGov) to provide a pre-hardened base operating system targeting
a particular deployment environment (on-premise FAA versus cloud).

In the case of FCS, these stem cell images are orderable in the Agility Designer tool as Agility Workloads. In order to ensure
commonality between FCS and on premise FAA environments, the FAA should formally define and maintain standard server images that
apply across all environments and work with CSGov to have the images behind the FCS Operating System supplemental features implement
these base standards.

### Key Questions
- Do you currently have one or more golden images for your application?
- Do you have any waivers or exemptions for current FAA server standards?

### Checklist
1. In preparation for this play, AIF must adopt standards and change control for server images similar to client workstations.
2. In preparation for this play, AIF must create standard "stem cell images" based on our core server standards and work with our cloud integrator to ensure functional commonality.
3. Assess golden image state against new the new FAA standard "stem cell image" and document state changes for inclusion in automation to be deployed by automated configuration management system.