---
playid: 9
gear: medium
title: Automate deployment of Applications using an Orchestration Engine.
---

A medium tier application most likely is a complex multi-tiered application with isolated tiers implemented on pools of virtual machines. In the previous two plays, the deployment of operating systems, platforms, and middleware
was automated through the combination of "stem cell" images and automated configuration management assets. However, in order to fully automate the deployment of a complex multi-tiered application, an orchestration engine must
deploy these components according to an application architecture. In the case of Agility Platform, this is performed by creating a top-level Agility Blueprint through the Agility Designer Tool using embedded blueprints,
workloads, and packages. If architecturally appropriate, these Agility Blueprints would implement horizontal scaling through scaling plans that tie to CCSD 6.1.1 monthly-priced virtual machines with the operating system and
elasticity supplemental features.

### Key Questions
- Has the deployment of all operating systems, platforms, and middleware been successfully automated?
- Does the orchestration engine fully align with the system security boundary or does the application integrate with legacy systems of record?

### Checklist
1. Create a master orchestration template for the applicaton that uses images and automation assets to implement the application's architecture.
2. Place this master orchestration template under version control and work with configuration management and security to make this the primary unit of analysis for their respective processes