---
playid: 15
gear: high
title: Maximize use of vendor-agnotic services capable of deployment to alternative CSPs
---

The FAA Cloud offers a hybrid cloud brokerage model that allows applications to migrate between AWS, Azure, and private clouds via the Agility Platform. That may not seem like a killer feature to developers,
but it most certainly does to operations, enterprise architects, and the IT executive team. As such, new high gear applications should maximize use of vendor-netrual subset of cloud capabilities offered by
the FCS contract via the Agility Store cloud service catalog. All applications seeking specialty high-value proprietary cloud services should contact the FCS program office early during their requirements
gathering process to allow for cost-benefit analysis weighing functionality against lock-in, portfolio managment, and integration work.

For example, a system owner may consider the [Watson Visual Recognition](http://www.ibm.com/smarterplanet/us/en/ibmwatson/developercloud/visual-recognition.html)
service to be a perfect for a new Google Glass safety inspector app. The FCS program office may not be able to provide this particular service, but it will work with our strategic cloud partner to
bring an architectural alternative into the cloud service catalog to fulfill your requirements, such as [Google's open-source Tensorflow technology](http://www.wired.com/2015/11/google-open-sources-its-artificial-intelligence-engine/) provisioned on top of virtual
machine contract line items. Alternately, the FCS program management team may approve the use of a specialty proprietary cloud services contingent on the implementation of compensating controls, such as the abstraction of APIs into modularized
connectors that enable development of a drop-in replacement for the service should the need arise.

### Key Questions
- Does my application require non-commodity specialty cloud services?
- Are there a special APIs or SaaS capabilitie that offers significant potenti
- Does my need-by date provide me ample time to work through the FCS processes to onboard new cloud services?

### Checklist
1. Map functional requirements against services in the Agility Store
2. Work with the FCS program office to perform functional gap analysis and identify new services worth adding to the FCS contrat.